Q. Difference between inline and block elements?
Inline elements occupy the sufficient width required. They don't have top and bottom margin. They don't start in a new line. Eg:- a tag, script tag, b tag, span tag, img tag, label tag
Block elements occupy the full width irrespective of their sufficiency. They have top and bottom margin. They always start in a new line. Eg:- h1-h6 tag, br tag, hr tag, div tag, p tag, ul tag, ol tag, li tag, table tag

Q. What is inline-block?
It's a mixture of both the properties inline and block i.e. we can set width and height of element like block elements and element does not add a line-break like inline elements

Q. Difference between grid and flexbox?
Grids helps us create the outer layout of the webpage. We can build complex as well responsive design with this. This is why it is called ‘layout first’.
Flexbox mostly helps align content & move blocks.
Grids are for 2D layouts. It works with both rows and columns.
Flexbox works better in one dimension only (either rows OR columns).

Q. What is cell padding and cell spacing?
Cellpadding specifies the space between the border of a table cell and its contents (i.e) it defines the whitespace between the cell edge and the content of the cell. Cellspacing: Cellspacing specifies the space between cells (i.e) it defines the whitespace between the edges of the adjacent cells.

Q. What is font-weight and font-size?
The font-weight property sets how thick or thin characters in text should be displayed whereas the font-size property sets the size of a font.

Q. what is difference between em and rem?
em is relative to the font-size of its direct or nearest parent whereas rem is relative to the HTML (root) font-size.

Q. What is difference between relative and absolute position in css?
An element with position: relative; is positioned relative to its normal position.
An element with position: absolute; is positioned relative to the nearest positioned ancestor.However; if an absolute positioned element has no positioned ancestors, it uses the document body, and moves along with page scrolling.

Bootstrap :- This is a framework developed by Twitter that contains pre-made front-end templates for web design.

for css responsive design
padding,margin --> rem
height --> vh or %
width --> vw or %
border-radius --> px
font size --> px
use display --> flex, justify-content, align-items for responsive design
avoid use of position --> absolute, relative

Q. What is difference between sticky and fixed position in css?
